reading-list.md, before:

# Tobias

**Philosophy of Statistical Inference and Modeling reading list**  
https://errorstatistics.files.wordpress.com/2014/05/fifth-installment-6334-syllabus.pdf

**Paul Meehl**
- [ ] Meehl, P. E. (1990). Why summaries of research on psychological theories are often uninterpretable. *Psychological reports, 66*(1), 195-244. + Gelman's blog post: https://statmodeling.stat.columbia.edu/2015/03/23/paul-meehl-continues-boss/
- [x] Meehl, P. (1978) Theoretical Risks and Tabular Asterisks: Sir Karl, Sir Ronald, and the Slow Progress of Soft Psychology.


**The Triad (from List)**
- [ ] Fisher (1955), Statistical Methods and Scientific Induction, J R Stat Soc (B) 17: 69-78.
- [ ] Pearson (1955). Statistical Concepts in Their Relation to Reality, J R Stat Soc (B) 17: 204-207. 
- [ ] Neyman (1956). Note on an Article by Sir Ronald Fisher, J R Stat Soc (B) 18: 288-294.

**Other**
- [ ] Breiman, L. (2001). Statistical modeling: The two cultures (with comments and a rejoinder by the author). *Statistical science, 16*(3), 199-231. https://projecteuclid.org/download/pdf_1/euclid.ss/1009213726
- [ ] Leamer, E. E. (1983). Let’s take the con out of econometrics. *Modelling Economic Series, 73*, 31-43. https://www.jstor.org/stable/pdf/1803924.pdf

# Aleksandr

- [ ] Hennig, C. (2010). Mathematical models and reality: A constructivist perspective. *Foundations of Science, 15*(1), 29-48. https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/3c14/babe3505d7931792dd2f3b8ddf35a8203e71.pdf
- [ ] Schönbrodt, F. D., & Perugini, M. (2013). At what sample size do correlations stabilize?. *Journal of Research in Personality, 47*(5), 609-612. https://epub.ub.uni-muenchen.de/17968/1/oa_Schoenbrodt_17968.pdf

**Reproducibility & Replication reading list**  
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dopRJgO-I8dZBIvtEnftN5wtATGrMseX4mHZM7ePOQw/edit
- [ ] Meehl, P. E. (1967). Theory-testing in psychology and physics: A methodological paradox. *Philosophy of science, 34*(2), 103-115. https://meehl.dl.umn.edu/sites/g/files/pua1696/f/074theorytestingparadox.pdf

# Aaron

- [ ] Nannen, V. (2010). A short introduction to model selection, Kolmogorov complexity and Minimum Description Length (MDL). *arXiv preprint arXiv:1005.2364*. http://volker.nannen.com/pdf/short_introduction_to_model_selection.pdf
- [ ] Ashby, W. R. (1991). Principles of the self-organizing system. In *Facets of systems science* (pp. 521-536). Springer, Boston, MA. http://csis.pace.edu/~marchese/CS396x/Computing/Ashby.pdf
- [ ] Carnap, R. (1936). Testability and meaning. *Philosophy of science, 3*(4), 419-471. https://www.jstor.org/stable/184400
- [ ] Perlis, A. J. (1982). Special feature: Epigrams on programming. *ACM Sigplan Notices, 17*(9), 7-13. http://pu.inf.uni-tuebingen.de/users/klaeren/epigrams.html

# Maximilian

- [ ] Meehl, P. E. (1990). Appraising and amending theories: The strategy of Lakatosian defense and two principles that warrant it. *Psychological inquiry, 1*(2), 108-141. https://meehl.dl.umn.edu/sites/g/files/pua1696/f/147appraisingamending.pdf
- [ ] http://volker.nannen.com/pdf/short_introduction_to_model_selection.pdf
- [ ] http://csis.pace.edu/~marchese/CS396x/Computing/Ashby.pdf
- [ ] https://www.jstor.org/stable/184400
- [ ] http://pu.inf.uni-tuebingen.de/users/klaeren/epigrams.html
- [ ] http://meehl.umn.edu/sites/g/files/pua1696/f/177pathanalysismw2002.pdf
*i think the last paper of Paul Meehl (despite his follow-up Paper responding to Objections to this Paper), about how to test causal relationships in a net of numerous variables where you do not know if your net could be misspecified at another place, which could lead to wrong conclusions about the effect of interest. His proposed method seemed to never really have been picked up by researchers, despite there is a (rudimental) R-Package*
- [ ] https://www.philosophie.hu-berlin.de/de/lehrbereiche/logik/lehre/carnap-metaphysik.pdf
- [ ] https://www.jstor.org/stable/pdf/184479.pdf?casa_token=ObQjVsRTKZUAAAAA:6siUatS24gcgMt2KMEIaY4kiXcpvnXnRdir0S2CL2yV_bkhmVQP-49yRE6EFbRSvbSZFup4jdT3Ubs6ZEPa9O7uFqmwFA7K_xfLsOVNNnveMtFB-7Ncq4w
*two papers of Carnap, I think we should definitely read meaning and testability as proposed by Aaron, but if we want to read more of Carnap (or facilitate the understanding) those papers could be worth reading. Theye are both more philosophical und explain what the general viewpoint of Carnap on truth and meaning is. The first one is about what meaning is and which designators/sentences have meaning and which seem to have meaning, but do not have. The second one is about Carnaps oppinion that several seemingly difficult questions in philosophy boil down to easy ones if correctly restated in relation to the used language.*
- [ ] https://statmodeling.stat.columbia.edu/2017/12/15/piranha-problem-social-psychology-behavioral-economics-button-pushing-model-science-eats/ 
*my favourite blog post of Gelman*

Commit message:

add borsboom to reading list

reading-list.md, after:

# Tobias

**Philosophy of Statistical Inference and Modeling reading list**  
https://errorstatistics.files.wordpress.com/2014/05/fifth-installment-6334-syllabus.pdf

**Paul Meehl**
- [ ] Meehl, P. E. (1990). Why summaries of research on psychological theories are often uninterpretable. *Psychological reports, 66*(1), 195-244. + Gelman's blog post: https://statmodeling.stat.columbia.edu/2015/03/23/paul-meehl-continues-boss/
- [x] Meehl, P. (1978) Theoretical Risks and Tabular Asterisks: Sir Karl, Sir Ronald, and the Slow Progress of Soft Psychology.


**The Triad (from List)**
- [ ] Fisher (1955), Statistical Methods and Scientific Induction, J R Stat Soc (B) 17: 69-78.
- [ ] Pearson (1955). Statistical Concepts in Their Relation to Reality, J R Stat Soc (B) 17: 204-207. 
- [ ] Neyman (1956). Note on an Article by Sir Ronald Fisher, J R Stat Soc (B) 18: 288-294.

**Other**
- [ ] Breiman, L. (2001). Statistical modeling: The two cultures (with comments and a rejoinder by the author). *Statistical science, 16*(3), 199-231. https://projecteuclid.org/download/pdf_1/euclid.ss/1009213726
- [ ] Leamer, E. E. (1983). Let’s take the con out of econometrics. *Modelling Economic Series, 73*, 31-43. https://www.jstor.org/stable/pdf/1803924.pdf

# Aleksandr

- [ ] Hennig, C. (2010). Mathematical models and reality: A constructivist perspective. *Foundations of Science, 15*(1), 29-48. https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/3c14/babe3505d7931792dd2f3b8ddf35a8203e71.pdf
- [ ] Schönbrodt, F. D., & Perugini, M. (2013). At what sample size do correlations stabilize?. *Journal of Research in Personality, 47*(5), 609-612. https://epub.ub.uni-muenchen.de/17968/1/oa_Schoenbrodt_17968.pdf

**Reproducibility & Replication reading list**  
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dopRJgO-I8dZBIvtEnftN5wtATGrMseX4mHZM7ePOQw/edit
- [ ] Meehl, P. E. (1967). Theory-testing in psychology and physics: A methodological paradox. *Philosophy of science, 34*(2), 103-115. https://meehl.dl.umn.edu/sites/g/files/pua1696/f/074theorytestingparadox.pdf

# Aaron

- [ ] Nannen, V. (2010). A short introduction to model selection, Kolmogorov complexity and Minimum Description Length (MDL). *arXiv preprint arXiv:1005.2364*. http://volker.nannen.com/pdf/short_introduction_to_model_selection.pdf
- [ ] Ashby, W. R. (1991). Principles of the self-organizing system. In *Facets of systems science* (pp. 521-536). Springer, Boston, MA. http://csis.pace.edu/~marchese/CS396x/Computing/Ashby.pdf
- [ ] Carnap, R. (1936). Testability and meaning. *Philosophy of science, 3*(4), 419-471. https://www.jstor.org/stable/184400
- [ ] Perlis, A. J. (1982). Special feature: Epigrams on programming. *ACM Sigplan Notices, 17*(9), 7-13. http://pu.inf.uni-tuebingen.de/users/klaeren/epigrams.html
- [ ] Borsboom, D., Mellenbergh, G. J., & Van Heerden, J. (2003). The theoretical status of latent variables. *Psychological review, 110*(2), 203.
- [ ] Borsboom, D., Mellenbergh, G. J., & van Heerden, J. (2004). The Concept of Validity. *Psychological Review, 111*(4), 1061-1071.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1037/0033-295X.111.4.1061


# Maximilian

- [ ] Meehl, P. E. (1990). Appraising and amending theories: The strategy of Lakatosian defense and two principles that warrant it. *Psychological inquiry, 1*(2), 108-141. https://meehl.dl.umn.edu/sites/g/files/pua1696/f/147appraisingamending.pdf
- [ ] http://volker.nannen.com/pdf/short_introduction_to_model_selection.pdf
- [ ] http://csis.pace.edu/~marchese/CS396x/Computing/Ashby.pdf
- [ ] https://www.jstor.org/stable/184400
- [ ] http://pu.inf.uni-tuebingen.de/users/klaeren/epigrams.html
- [ ] http://meehl.umn.edu/sites/g/files/pua1696/f/177pathanalysismw2002.pdf
*i think the last paper of Paul Meehl (despite his follow-up Paper responding to Objections to this Paper), about how to test causal relationships in a net of numerous variables where you do not know if your net could be misspecified at another place, which could lead to wrong conclusions about the effect of interest. His proposed method seemed to never really have been picked up by researchers, despite there is a (rudimental) R-Package*
- [ ] https://www.philosophie.hu-berlin.de/de/lehrbereiche/logik/lehre/carnap-metaphysik.pdf
- [ ] https://www.jstor.org/stable/pdf/184479.pdf?casa_token=ObQjVsRTKZUAAAAA:6siUatS24gcgMt2KMEIaY4kiXcpvnXnRdir0S2CL2yV_bkhmVQP-49yRE6EFbRSvbSZFup4jdT3Ubs6ZEPa9O7uFqmwFA7K_xfLsOVNNnveMtFB-7Ncq4w
*two papers of Carnap, I think we should definitely read meaning and testability as proposed by Aaron, but if we want to read more of Carnap (or facilitate the understanding) those papers could be worth reading. Theye are both more philosophical und explain what the general viewpoint of Carnap on truth and meaning is. The first one is about what meaning is and which designators/sentences have meaning and which seem to have meaning, but do not have. The second one is about Carnaps oppinion that several seemingly difficult questions in philosophy boil down to easy ones if correctly restated in relation to the used language.*
- [ ] https://statmodeling.stat.columbia.edu/2017/12/15/piranha-problem-social-psychology-behavioral-economics-button-pushing-model-science-eats/ 
*my favourite blog post of Gelman*
