# Protocol 2019-05-29, Wednesday

## Papers/Technicalities

* Hennig, C. (2010). Mathematical models and reality: 
A constructivist perspective. Foundations of Science, 15(1), 29-48.

### SESSION START

* Discussion about the focus of our meetup. 
  * present paper is the extreme of philosphicalness we want to read
  * next paper should me more focused on statistics
  * next paper will be Karl, F. (2012). 
  A free energy principle for biological systems. Entropy, 14(11), 2100-2121.
  
### General Opinions

*Pro: Defends Constructivism and derives the scientific process from it.
*Contra: Maybe this isn't really a new idea, "Luhmanns Systemtheorie" uses similar
foundations. Constructivism ist a general assumption of many sociological Theories.

### Kommunication

*Communication should be replaced by perception, because speech is a "real" object.
  *Author confirms this in footnote 4.
*Author's Theorie: Through perception we build a personal reality, which we adjust through 
communication with others to arrive at a social reality.
  *Mathematics leads to a form of communication which is unambiguous.
  *Ambiguous is the relation of mathematics to "real" objects.
  
### Physics

*We doubt that galileo builded his theories without any connection to reality.
  *We assume he had the goal to explain/predict reality.
  *Also Galileo is seen as the founder of experimental physics.
*Using quantum theory as a proof of constructivism does not make sense.
  *You can not use empirical evicence as an unambiguous proof that 
  there is no unambiguous evidence and therefore no unambiguosu proof.
*Fun reading: "Hermeneutische Interpretation der Quantenmechanik", ""Eleganter Unsinn",
Added by Max: "Wider die großen Worte" by Karl Popper:
https://www.zeit.de/1971/39/wider-die-grossen-worte

### Main point of the paper
*Model and reality relate somehow to one another, to describe this relationship we
need a model again. This leads to an infinite regress of models.
  *critique: why shouldn't this regress converge?
  *Answer: Maybe "Gödelscher Unvollständigkeitssatz" says that.
  
### Main critique about deriving the scientific process from constructivism
*How can you compare models without a common reality?
  *Are the models different, or the interpretations of reality?
  *Example: mixing colours: prediction error for one person, but not for the others.
  *Critique: There should be a one-to-one translation from one perception to another.
  *Fun fact: Before the orange was important, nothing was quite orange.
  
### Open questions and conclusions

*What happens, if you connect brains together?
*You shouldn't undercut the zensus, it is the basis of all survey statistics.
*Models affect reality. Very important in the social sciences: maybe models
have a date of expiry, namely if they get to be common knowledge and therefore
change behaviour.
  
