## Meetup 30.10.2019

Beginn at 19:18

### Presentation of the new repository
* new paper proposal mechanism
  * proposal.R -> just paste your paper there and then create a new file in the "proposals" folder

### Paper discussion
Paper: [Inferring causation from time series in Earth system sciences (Runge, 2019)](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-10105-3)

#### A short summary of the paper
* You can't do experiments on systems like the Earth, since obviously we can't duplicate it, etc.
* and even the simulations are very costly, so need for an alternative
* => we need to infer from the observational data
* Again: You can't do experiments on systems like the Earth, since obviously we can't duplicate it, etc.

* Four traditions in causal inference (based on the personas who founded it)
* Two assumptions are crucial for every method
  * Markov assumption (or Markov's property)
  * Faithfulness <- very hard to meet and to verify
* Then the author compares those four methods on an abstract example (page 5)
* A real-life example about the Earth climate
* Challenges like methodological problems, etc.
* Discussion and outlooks

#### Discussion about Granger causality
* We take the data, we put aside for a while time points in the past of var X and look how Y would change in that model
* Time lag is crucial, emphasis that you have to sample data with proper 
* Graph C in the Box 1
  * Why just not to test the path X to Y?
* In principal you have to have a hypothesis about the lag but in practice you would try to estimate/test for it?
  * Also scale dependent on the field: In economics/ development psychology, could be years and decades. In EEG - sampling rate (milliseconds)

* How would you know WHICH variables to include in the model?
  * Point: Any model that "somehow expresses shared information"
  * Response: Could it be just a graph model?
  * It could be quite general. If you have enough data, you can come to that function.

* Reichenbach's common principle discussion
  * The author states is granted, takes this assumption and just moves on (e.g. as the basis for the Granger causality)
* Although, many examples in the literature, where people give example where Gr. c. gives ridiculously false results
  * Economics example: Philipps Curve

* Cattell's Box as a useful model for causal inference?

* Quote: "Induction is the great success in science and the greatest shame in philosophy"
* Causality from philosophical versus practical perspective
* (more discussion on philosophy of science, empiricism, ...)
* e.g., example of Person A pushes Person B down the stairs and Person B, falling, breaks Object C. Has A or B caused the break of C?

#### Skipping the discussion of further models
  * We should find better papers who describe them more clear

#### Figure 3, page 7
  * Why is causal hypothesis testing a separate topic from the causal inference itself?

#### Challenges discussion
* page 8, last sentence: How do "some methods" turn non-Gaussianity into an advantage?
  * Just different assumptions about the error distribution basically, simple as that

* Point: These challenges are not unique to causal inference, so they are trivial
  * Better: How to determine conditions where you could define only a subset of variables and still come to the right conclusions
  * E.g., when you can assume Markov condition?

#### Further questions/points
* How do you simulate causality? E.g., I want to build a causal graph as they suggest on causeme.net What determines the directionality of the variables?
  * E.g., I have R open -> how I should proceed.
  * Using conditional distributions: I sample from distribution A and get a value and that would be a parameter of the next distributions and so on.

* Importance of causal inference in Bayesian networks

* Read suggestions
  * The Book of Why by J. Pearl<- a popular read, but a lot of information to the topic. Also mentioned/cited in the today's paper.
  *  Causation Prediction and Search by  <- a classic read By Spirtes, Glamour, and Scheines. Describes an algorithm on the topic (starting in 1990s and still developing).
  * Two Dogmas of Empiricism by Quine <- a philosophical paper on the topic.
  * causeme.net <- also from the paper.
  * https://causeme.uv.es/neurips2019/ <- a competition on topic.

#### Notes
* Try to simulate causal inference on the data: an idea for a hackathlon?
* Request to read: Anything \that states that a "proper" causal inference would do better than a ML algorithm.
* "Free lunch theorem" : You cannot assume anything that beats any prediction algorithm for any hypothetical world, because whenever you optimize one thing you have a disadvantage on other.
