# Protocol 2019-07-31, Wednesday

## Papers/Technicalities

* Fisher, R. (1955). Statistical methods and scientific induction. *Journal of the Royal Statistical Society: Series B (Methodological)*, *17*(1), 69-78.

## Discussion

* Point: The theory behind Neyman-Pearson approach is thought as simple, but reading paper left the other 

* Discussion about Fisher's remarks on "Repeated Sampling from the Same Population"
    * It is not being emphasized in stat classes enough that when we are estimating SD from a population, we rely on a procedure that assumes that these samples are taken from the same population

* Side discussion about bootstrapping procedure:
    * With small N, bootstrap gives slightly smaller variance than in the  (due to resampling, ...?).

* Discussion about historical context of the paper
    * 1955 -- they year when frequentist paradigm was already fully formulated
    * Main developments in 1920-40s already.

* Errors of the "Second Kind" 
    * Argument: The main point of this section, if you are rejecting H0, you are not automatically accepting H1. Also many ppl forget it, not well taught in undergrad courses.

* Side discussion about Bayes VS Frequentist
    * Question: Is Bayes stats a superset of frequentist?
    * Discussion about famous example on "how to estimate the probability of nuclear war happening"?

* Going back to the discussion of "black box" approach and the paper on Two Cultures.

* Probability is not a property of the object, but a property of our information about this object.
